Namaste!
Nine more episodes have gone by, and eleven
to nineteen, I am ready for questions from
viewers!
A friend had written to me about the discussion
we had had on “The dress we wear”. You
may want to spend some time and read it in
full, up here. The important point he was
trying to make was this. You can do all those
things once you get a brand image. I, for
example, am a software engineer too. Am a
flautist and Kutcheri performer too, on the
side. I can’t wear a suit to a kutcheri,
nor a silk “jibba” to a classical concert.
That was the message he had sent me. I completely
agree. But, what was I trying to say? Well,
all I wanted to convey was that we should
focus on the message. I was telling that to
the LISTENERS and VIEWERS. No, I wasn’t
telling the presenters that they shouldn’t
obsess about their attire, and that they should
focus only on the message! I wanted the ones
in the audience to start doing that. Only
then, the presenters will get that crucial
realisation. That was the point I was making.
Thank you.
Wayne Gretzky’s “Where is the puck”.
“Go, skate, where the puck will be”. I
guess that quote probably ruffled quite a
few people. Some of you said that it was “easy
to say (but not as easy to do?)”. Some others
pointed out that it was overused and cliched.
I agree that this quote is from a genius of
the game. I always maintain that it is a really
foolish thing to do to go to the genius of
any subject, and ask them “how they do it”.
Because? He is a true natural. Which is why,
truly accomplished sportspeople rarely become
amazing coaches. Because, they don’t know
what it is that gave them that greatness.
So… We will surely talk a bit more about
this. In the upcoming episodes. About this
particular quote by Wayne Gretzky, about sports,
about leadership, we are going to have a brief
snippet.
A friend, a lady-friend, had written, 12+1
= 13 had appeared on the 13th day. Nice! Many
didn’t notice that nuance, nobody said anything,
and it was heartening to see that she had
noticed it. Thank you!
The three legs of the stool. Many of you wrote
back to me, saying, “Yes, you hit the nail
on the head, it was so appropriate”… Interestingly,
if you google for it, you realise that the
three-legged-stool as an idea is not just
in finding out whether it is a good career
opportunity for you. There is a three-legged
stool in investment. There is a three-legged
stool in leadership. There is another three-legged
stool in retirement planning! It seems to
be a very powerful metaphor! If you search
for a “three-legged stool”, right from
“How to win a war”, all the way to “How
to lead a happy married life”, you have
got a three-legged stool! Enjoy!
We talked about the coming age of robots.
That story… we were talking about, “Hey,
try to get yourself a career where the robots
will aspire..” Forget about “Will a robot
take my job”, and start focusing on “Will
a robot want my job” — I had said. Many
of you visited that website, and even shared
the numbers you had received for your respective
careers. I think I have a safe future… Or,
I think I am done for.. What do I do now..!
Many of you had commented thus. Let us understand,
it is a little tongue-in-cheek. A little mockery
was involved. But… Make no mistake. Faster
than expected, with a greater impact than
expected, the robot revolution is coming.
Again, in one of the future episodes, we will
talk a little more about that.
We were talking about trust. About keeping
the faith. A relative… actually… he messaged
me thus. You are contradicting yourself. In
the beginning, you had said, once broken,
it is nearly impossible to put back the mirror
like it originally was. Then, you tell the
story of Michael Jordan, and how they trusted
him again and again, so many times. So, what
are you really trying to say? Clarify! Well,
in sports, there are many different kinds,
after all. Cricket is one kind of sport. Football
is another kind of game. Basketball is a third
kind of sport. Different from each other.
In each of these, leadership, trust, and teamwork
will be on display in different ways. In this
particular case, all I wanted to convey was
this. A manager, a leader, while their natural
tendency might be to not trust or put faith
in a particular person or situation, in some
situations, should trust beyond the call of
duty. When it is very clear that it is logically
wrong to trust any further, to trust at that
time, MAY yield benefits! Your mileage may
vary! It worked out for me. You test it out
for yourself!
We had talked about the “Be the first, Be
the best, or Do something different”. In
that story, if you look at Zomato, I realize
that it is also a great example, said a friend.
Oh, yes, I realised. What does Zomato say?
Even if you don’t have a website for your
restaurant, even if you don’t have an online
menu, I can create one for you, and I will
supply! Nice idea, I thought! I had talked
about Uber. This friend had talked about Zomato.
I went googling a bit. And, I chanced upon
this news item. Uber Eats has sold itself
to Zomato! Yes! Zomato has purchased Uber
Eats. Interesting. Like minds think alike.
They see synergy, and great things happen.
It is in this synergy that two and two come
together to become five! We will see in one
of our future episodes!
I had highlighted the A B C principle. Always,
try to be constructive. Don’t just think
different. Think productively too. A mother
had written to me about what she used to do
for her children. Always be careful. Avoid
bad company. For each of these, ABC is a nice
metaphor. A nice mnemonic to remember. It
was really pleasant to hear that.
About the Circle of Knowledge, we had talked
twice, if you remember. We had seen how the
ant too, by its own measure, is “eight spans
long”.. Is that, then, the circle of knowledge?
So, does it mean we end where we begin? Wow!
This is a philosophically deep point. In other
words, Knowledge is not “Filling Your Vessel”,
knowledge is “Enlarging Your Vessel”.
You have a vessel, and knowledge is not about
putting everything into it till the brim!
The pursuit of knowledge. The search for knowledge
is all about making the vessel larger and
larger so it can hold more! So, as you keep
feeding it, it gets hungrier! Think about
that!
Remember that little twist that Sasikumar,
my colleague, had given? Many of you had commented
that it was so interesting to hear that! “That
was a very different way to think about it!
Once you learn about it, it becomes just a
fistful! Very nice!” you had said. Thank
you!
There was this other point we had discussed.
Learn like a T. Breadth is needed too. Not
just depth. Some of my teammates debated this
for quite some time, and shared this with
me. It was interesting to listen to. That
T? It is not just for furthering you in your
career path. Another colleague, perhaps from
another domain, when they are part of your
team, what are they actually doing, how hard
is it, what skills are needed for it, what
are the challenges, learning all this is important
and vital even for teamwork to prosper! It
was heartening to hear this opinion from them.
Niranjana Krishnamoorthy told me that she
has started ordering books from Amazon to
dig deep into the topics we had discussed!
Please subscribe to Amazon Prime if you want.
We are going to encounter a lot more books!
Because, my whole thing here is “Quotidian”.
I am not coming up with something unique and
new, a principle or philosophy nobody else
has spoken anywhere else before. These are
just pages torn off books that I have read.
All I am doing is to exclaim “Hey, look
at this”, “Hey, read that”, and so on!
So, you are going to buy a lot of books! Enjoy
the reading! And, yes, share what you read!
One friend told me — “I am trying to predict
what you are going to talk about next. You
have spoken till now about this… What are
you going to come up with next.. Is there
a schematic? Is there a connection? I am thinking
about it!” Well, let me know if you arrive
at a conclusion. Because, as far as I myself
know, I am not doing this with any theme in
mind. I just think about it in the morning,
analyse and collect the threads by evening,
record it at night, and publish it the next
morning. That is how it has been running along
till now.
The same lady said, “Your contents are very
deep, profound, thanks!” I need to tell
you something here. I am learning. I am not
just sharing what I know. For example, that
Russian proverb that I shared with so much
“pride”, that proverb? I didn’t know.
I didn’t know it until that afternoon! While
I was searching for something, I chanced upon
this Russian proverb, and liking it, I decided
to share that with you all. That’s all.
So, if I am doing Quotidians, there is a little
hidden agenda there. To learn something new
everyday, for myself too! So, it is in connection
with that, that I am sharing what I learned,
what I am learning. That is something I would
like to clarify. Thanks a lot!